beautiful thanks for coming along
everybody my name is Jay and I'm one of
the expert Oh et Oh et that's the worst
introduction I've ever done I am an
expert Oh et teacher in fact and a PTA
teacher but in this live class we're
going to look at IELTS IELTS academic
writing task one specifically we're
going to look at hi charts it's a bit of
a tricky one so we're going to look at
these two pie charts here imagine if you
got this on test day on the left hand
side you can see government investments
in wind nuclear coal solar natural gas
and other and on the right hand side you
can see electrical generation for coal
nuclear natural gas solar and wind and
no other your task is to describe these
two graphs in a hundred and fifty words
or more in about twenty minutes
it's really really tough it's something
that mmm it's something that it's
perhaps definitely practiced but it's
more than practice it's real it first of
all it requires you to understand what
you're looking at then have a structure
so you know what to do on test day then
to practice it receive feedback and
that's how you'll boost your IELTS
writing score let's do this together
though so the mission today is to write
a high scoring task one that's the
mission to write a high scoring task one
ok let's first look at the graph
description because above those two pie
charts is going to be a box and in the
box is two sentences the first sentence
is a brief description of those two pie
charts it says the charts below compare
Australian government investments in
various energy sectors and the share of
electricity generated by those energies
let's read that again because it's quite
complex
here we go this sentence here the charts
below find these two charts here right
the charts below are these two charts I
should say compare Australian government
investments in various energy sectors so
here's the government investments in
nuclear coal wind etc and the share of
electricity generated by those energy
sir
okay so nuclear they invested 21 percent
of their money into nuclear and it
produced 22 percent of electrical
generation in Australia okay fine so
we've understood that that's fine what
do we have to actually do because the
IELTS tell you it's in the second
sentence they write summarize the
information select and report the main
features and make comparisons relevant
comparisons that's what you have to do
let's think about a structure that we
can use that that lost for words here a
structure that we can use that satisfies
the IELTS examiner's because that's what
it's all about it's about satisfying the
IELTS examiner's so he or she looks at
yours and says okay great they've done
it all and they've done it well so we're
going to do three things we're gonna
cording to those instructions we're
going to summarize we're going to
describe and we're going to compare and
we're going to do it in three parts okay
so again the first part is the summary
the charts below compare the Australian
government investments in various energy
sectors and the share of electricity
generated by those energies fine we've
understood that this is what we're going
to write on test a will look something
like this it will have three parts I'm
going to teach you how to write these
three parts so let's look at how to
summarize first summarize basically all
you need to do is you need to take that
first sentence out of the box rewrite it
in your own words to say the exact same
thing
right so here's mine
I said the two pie charts compare the
proportion of investments into various
energy sectors by the Australian
government and how much energy was
actually produced by each energy sector
let's compare mine so the original
sentence says the charts below compare
Australian government investments in
various energy sectors and the share of
electricity generated by those energies
I wrote the two pie charts compare the
proportion of investments in to various
energy sectors by the Australian
government and how much energy was
actually produced by each energy sector
what I've done is rewrite that in my own
words to say the exact same thing now I
want you to do it okay I'm going to give
you three minutes to rewrite that
description in your own words to say the
exact same thing your three minutes
starts now
you
all right uh is something going on on
YouTube I see that there's some comments
here okay
going on my internet just bear with me
beautiful thing about live streaming it
seems to have a problem
all right
you
okay some people can see it I don't know
what's going on I can see it let me just
send this for you those of you in the
webinar if my screen is not formatting
properly on your screen please click
this link that I just put in the chat
and it will take you to the loot YouTube
livestream and you can watch it on there
okay I think it's all good just let me
check with the YouTube people can you
see my screen is it working please reply
you
just give me one second I just got to
get the chat if you're on the YouTube
live chat please reply to me no okay
it's not working
just let me stop the livestream and then
I'll restart it I'm sorry about but I
must say technology is incredibly
frustrating at times now it's working
somebody says okay well that's too bad
because I just killed it
okay now it seems to be working all
right all right all right all right back
all right all right all right is it
working now
all right now it's working cool let's go
back let's go back and let's start here
so you had three minutes to rewrite that
that graph description into your own
words how did you go I hope you did it
well let's now move on to describing key
features of the graph this is kind of
simple it's simpler than than the third
section what we need to do basically
generally is just describe key features
we're not going into too much detail
we're just going to look at the two pies
and we're going to briefly describe what
each one is showing so if I look let's
first look at this pie chart here the
government investments okay now if you
just look at the different pie pieces
which one stick out to you the most well
I don't know about you but I see wind at
42% then I see nuclear at 21%
what am i doing I'm look going from
biggest to smallest because we need a
logical way to describe the key features
so wind nuclear other coal solar and
then natural gas in other words if I
number it which would be a more logical
way to do this number one number two
number three number four number five and
number six but instead of writing six
sentences what I'm going to do is this
you know wait till that works I'm going
to go like this I'm going to write one
sentence include these in the one
sentence and then
a second sentence that includes these
three these three pipe pieces of the pie
here right so I'm going to just describe
it generally then I'm going to move
across to electrical generation which is
here I'm going to describe again biggest
the smallest coal gas nuclear and then
we've just got two little pieces here so
let's look at what I wrote I wrote this
I wrote the Australian government
invested into six different energy
sectors of which wind was the highest
followed by nuclear and other energies
coal solar and natural gas were also
invested into in terms of electrical
generation coal had the most significant
output followed by natural gas and then
nuclear wind and solar made up a very
small percentage and other energies did
not generate any energy at all let me
just break this down for you a bit more
closely so here I discovered a little
bit of an introductory phrase the
introduc is certainly Australian
government invested into six different
energy sectors of which whedon was the
highest followed by nuclear and other
energies then I started a new sentence
I'm still looking at the graph on the
Left coal solar and natural gas were
also invested into now I'm looking at
the graph on the right in terms of
electrical generation coal had the most
significant output followed by natural
gas and then nuclear next sentence wind
and solar made up a very small
percentage and other energies did not
generate any energy at all so what have
I done
I've just I haven't used any numbers
here I just looked at that graph and
just said okay this was the biggest this
was the next this was the next this was
the next this was the next this was the
next then I looked at the other graph
and did the same thing just described
those key features they're cool it's
your turn now I want you to do the same
thing I'm gonna give you five minutes to
describe generally the government
government investments and to describe
generally electrical generation your
five minutes starts now
you
all right well done that's five minutes
up how's it looking in there in my
webinar government investments in
different sectors were as follows wind
had the maximum percentage follow
maximum percentage the highest
percentage followed by nuclear whereas
coal solar and natural gas constituted a
comparatively comparatively lower
percentage electrical generation of coal
was the highest followed by nuclear and
natural gas however the percentage of
solar and wind were unnoticeable
unnoticeable is not quite the right word
you could just say we're comparatively
small something like that Australian
government invested in six different
areas which include wind and nuclear
topping the list followed by others coal
solar and natural gas in electrical
generation comma coal natural gas and
nuclear were the highest power
generators while solar and wind
electricity's were the least good nice
those general descriptions are looking
good again you're just stepping back
from those two pie charts and you're
just describing this one describing this
one generally key features now we move
into a harder thing which is before we
do that though can you please click like
on this YouTube video and if you feel I
could leave a comment feel free to
subscribe and share it with your friends
right now it gets tough because we're
going to compare
we're going to compare data this is
remember in our instructions that said
that we had to compare relevant what
does it say relevant data well you have
to compare relevant data then you have
to do what they say so let's do what
they say what we need to do first though
is we need to choose categories to
compare because we're not just gonna
compare randomly we're going to compare
with purpose then we're going to compare
them and we're going to include
numerical or numbers numerical
information right so let's look at these
two pie charts here so what are we going
to compare because we need to confer
compare the investments with the
generation right so let's look at I
don't know let's look at let's look at
wind okay so the Australian government
invested into wind at 42% like a
significant amount of their investment
money was into wind however wind only
produced 2 percent of actual electrical
generation so we're going to write a
sentence about that we're going to say
something like while the government
invested 42 percent into wind sector
into that wind sector comma it only
produced 2 percent of their electricity
chol outputs something like that I'll
show you how to write these sentences in
a second let's keep thinking about this
nuclear invested at 21 percent output 22
percent okay that's interesting natural
gas they invested at 6% but it had 27
percent of the output solar the
government invested at 8% it just
generated 1 percent of electrical
generation coal they invested into at 10
percent and it holy-moly had a 48
percent of electrical output other well
whereas other doesn't look like there's
an other at all let me show you some
sentence
structures that I would like you to use
while doing this so we've got these
words here like while although despite
so what we're gonna do here blah blah
blah this is PI one blah blah blah this
is PI 2 so we can say something like
wile blah blah blah comma blah blah blah
or although blah blah blah comma blah
blah blah despite blah blah blah come on
blah blah blah you can also write your
sentences like this blah blah blah comma
wild blah blah blah for example PI one
was at 68% whatever while the electrical
output was only 7% this is PI 2 maybe is
the same words here in the middle
another type of sentence you should be
writing is like this you would say bla
bla bla PI one in comparison PI 2 blah
blah blah or in contrast or yet now
contrast is a special word because we
use that when we're going contrasting
like high to low okay you don't contrast
small differences you can compare in
comparison that's fine you can use that
for any pie piece but contrast is
especially used to say okay
pie 1 had 1 percent of the investment I
let me just show you what I did instead
of trying to think of an example ok
let's go through this sentence by
sentence this is what I wrote so I
started by using the word comparing
because I want the IELTS examiner to
know explicitly know what I'm doing in
this paragraph and that is I am
comparing data I don't to hide that from
the examiner I want that to be very
clear so I said this I said comparing
investments with generation while while
wind was the most heavily invested in
sector it produced just 2% of
electricity I probably could have
included the percentage of wind which I
think was 40
two percent that would have made it
better I could have said while wind was
the most heavily invested in sector at
42% it produced just 2% of electricity
in fact I probably would have been
penalized slightly there I should have I
should have should have included that 42
percent number there I actually forgot
so that's my fault
fine let's look at the next sentence
nuclear in comparison had a very similar
proportion of investment to generation
at 21 percent and 22 percent
respectively
and then I said this although a coal
accounted for only 10 percent of
investment its output was the most
significant at 48 percent a 38 percent
increase on investment solar performed
reasonably well accounting for 1 percent
of electric electricity generation from
an 8 percent investment so I sort of
turned that around a little bit then I
said other investments which cost the
government 13 percent did not generate
any electrical output whatsoever you can
see the language that I'm using I'm
creating complex sentences by putting
the first PyCharm in the first half of
the sentence and the second pie-chart
the comparison in the second half of the
sentence I want you to do the same okay
this time I'm going to give you ten
minutes to go through and write this
properly so I want you to compare the
different pie pieces you have ten
minutes I want you to write complex
sentences using words like while or
though despite in comparison in contrast
and yet here we go
you
Oh
right that brings us to ten minutes so
we spent three minutes on the summary
sentence the introductory sentence we
spent five minutes on the description of
the key features we just spent ten
minutes so that's 18 minutes all up you
only want to spend about 20 minutes on
this task in the IELTS and they won't
tell you when 20 minutes is up you need
to manage your own time this leaves us
two minutes to edit our writing and you
really should make sure you go through
it make sure you haven't made any silly
mistakes maybe it's a vocabulary word or
a grammar point or a piece of
punctuation something like that let me
uh just have a look in the chat here let
me just read a few of these before we
move on so comparing the two pie charts
given in spite of the government's
target investment on wind 42% it wasn't
a target investment I'm sorry largest
investment on wind 42% comma 42% comma
it only gave an output of 2%
excellent well done great sentence
however the investment and generation in
nuclear you invest in something right
invest in nuclear was almost equal at 21
percent and 22 percent respectively
despite an investment of 8% in solar it
just gave an output of 1% these are
great sentences well done these are the
types of sentences you need to write
because you're comparing two things
you're comparing two pieces of the pie
actually let me read you a few more from
Akshay comparing investments with
electrical generation the Australian
government invested 42 percent in wind
while it produced only 2 percent of
electricity there is almost an equal
proportion in investment and generation
for nuclear comma that is 21 percent and
22 percent respectively
even though coal accounted for only 10
percent of investment comma it produced
a maximum generation of electricity of
48 percent good well done you
got it let me just read a few here from
Wilson in comparison with government
investment and an electricity generation
just say comparing let's make this short
and sweet just say comparing investment
with generation comma 42% was invested
into wind but just 2% of electricity was
generated by wind
full-stop new sentence while 21% was
spent on nuclear energy comma about 22%
of power was generated by the same
nuclear energy good you've got it well
done a few little things it wasn't about
was actually precise link 22% so now no
need for the word about they're awesome
well done just let me read you mine
again I want you to read this again ok
ok here we go so I said comparing
investments with generations the IELTS
examiner knows exactly what I'm doing
now while wind was the most heavily
invested in sector it produced just 2%
of electricity nuclear in comparison had
a very similar proportion of investment
to generation a 21 percent and 22
percent respectively although coal
accounted for only 10 percent of
investment its output was the most
significant at 48 percent a 38 percent
increase on investment Solar performed
reasonably well accounting for 1 percent
of electrically electricity generation
from an 8 percent investment other
investments which cost the government 13
percent did not generate any electrical
output whatsoever that's what we just
did let's recap how we did academic
writing task 1 first of all we
summarized by rewriting the sentence in
the text box that first sentence the
graph description we rewrote it in our
own words to say the exact same thing we
spent 3 minutes doing that okay then we
described the key features of each pie
chart that took us 5 minutes 5 minutes
or up to 8 minutes we still got 12
minutes left then we moved on and we did
the most difficult thing which requires
the most calm
grammatical sentences and that was we
compared PI pieces cool that's all so
this is what my description my academic
writing task one will look like on test
day I'm gonna have three clear sections
the summary the description and the
comparison for your interest I think
this was about a hundred and seventy
eight words as long as you write more
than 150 that's all you need to do okay
as long as you write more than 150 just
out of interest and just to remind you
this is where the numbers go you can see
all the numbers in here this is where
the numerical information goes this is
just a bit of a description of key
features okay and this is the summary
here cool all right hey guys I should
point out that if you need help with
your IELTS do check out this website e
to language comm we specialized we
specialized in IELTS preparation that's
what we do we prepare people for the
IELTS and the PTA and the OEt and the
TOEFL where language test experts so if
you or someone you know needs help with
the ions do check out that website
remember to subscribe to this channel do
click like and leave a comment make me
feel good I'll give you a jellybean if
you like hope that was helpful now what
I'll do is go and do some Q&A in the
webinar chat see you soon right let's
have a look at the chat here people any
questions ash Kay I'm a budget subscribe
and I have my test on November the 25th
is that time sufficient for me to
prepare
ah totally depends actually on your
previous scores what your current level
is and how hard you're studying at the
moment look if you can afford to upgrade
to get some feedback it's especially for
writing I think the speaking is OK in
IELTS they're not very strict on
speaking but for writing I all says well
it's tough so look I would think about
upgrading from budget to bronze or
silver just to get some tutorials and
some some written feedback any other
questions any other questions
what have we got what do we got any
other questions
you
okay let me just type in the chat here
any questions is there any questions any
questions
you
nope
all right okay so a question coming in
now good okay dens tawan in YouTube land
says can I compare the two pie charts
separately
well no you need to compare them with
something you can't just compare in the
pie chart because you look at wind what
are you going to compare wind to gas
that doesn't really make sense
comparing wind to wind investment first
generation so you're gonna think
logically about what you're going to
compare in that third section because it
won't be easy sometimes like when you
get a bar chart often you'll be
comparing men's performance with women's
performance or you'll be comparing what
happened in 1995 with 2005 so that's the
comparison that you have to make it's
pretty clear from the pie chart the
table the the bar chart the line graph
whatever you're doing what you're
comparing okay because there'll be
there'll be some thing that will have
two trends and so you say okay this
thing at this point was this and then
ten years later was this
akshay e to IELTS is there any upper
limits to the number of words well no
you can write as many words as you like
but if you go over the 20 minutes you
start to eat into the time for your
essay you want to keep 40 minutes for
your essay 20 minutes for your writing
task 1 ok so just write 150 words just
150 160 170 max that's it
our own Kumar can we use the same
structure for all comparison questions
yes you can except for the process
diagram and the map they're a little bit
different okay they're just they're
actually easy if you haven't seen that
one please click here to watch it or be
around there somewhere
my test is on October the 14th can I
am i capable to achieve a high score I
have no idea done ish it depends what
your current level of English is
compares it depends on what you're
studying now so think about getting some
preparation honestly cool somebody says
please help me go to e2 language comm
that's what we do we help people
some Nadia says let's do one more no I'm
going to bed I'll see you soon do watch
the other ones here there's up here
there's there's pie charts there's this
tables etc J can we write conclusion in
writing tasks want neuro there's nothing
to conclude it's just a description you
write a conclusion in the essay because
you're concluding something but you're
not concluding anything in writing task
1 how many paragraphs we must write in
what task 1 ok did you just watch that I
hope you did we wrote 3 we're at the
summary the description the comparison
cool all right all good guys I think I'm
gonna leave it there unless there's any
new questions in here which tense should
be used in this type of pie chart that's
a great question let's have a look at
that actually let me go back let's have
a look at the verb tenses here the two
pie charts compare the proportion of
investments in to various energy sector
bla bla bla bla bla bla bla was the
Australian government invested of which
win was was the highest coal solar and
natural gas were terms electrical
generation coal had followed by wind and
solar made can anyone tell me what type
of verb tense this is did
was
produced had what are we looking at what
type of verbs are we looking at here
this one's a little bit different this
is the present simple this one this is
the past we're using past simple verb
tenses here okay all of them and how do
we know that well it doesn't give you it
doesn't tell you what year
doesn't tell you when these investments
or the generation happened but we can
just assume that it's in the past
because the energy was generated I
suppose
good alright
no conclusions for writing task 1
okay some monisha you're mixing up the
SI with writing task 1 okay there are
four paragraphs in course book summary
at last no no no this is that's the
essay that's different I've seen some of
the summaries and video tutorials an e-2
portal oh okay okay I think I know what
you're talking about if your word count
is low if you're under 150 words you
can't not it's not a conclusion that you
can write a summary sentence let's say
you write 140 words and you're really
stuck you need to get to 150 because if
you write less than 150 it's going to be
problematic so you get stuck at 140 you
can write another summary sentence if
you like at the bottom okay
but I don't recommend it to be honest I
say right oder over 150 keep the three
paragraphs the summary the description
in the comparison that's what you need
that structure works
cool bananas any more questions on
YouTube nope
somebody says too early to go to bed
can we use idioms in task one absolutely
not this is an academic description of a
graph can't talk about raining cats and
dogs or kicking the bucket in this cool
all right guys I'm gonna leave it there
thanks very much for coming along I
appreciate I hope it was helpful and I
will see you soon
you